docs/source/bootstrap.rst, before:

Bootstrap
=========

Setup
-----

Clone `infrared` 2.0 from GitHub::

    git clone https://github.com/redhat-openstack/infrared.git

Make sure that all `prerequisites <setup.html#Prerequisites>`_ are installed.
Setup virtualenv and `install <setup.html#Installation>`_ from source using pip::

    cd infrared
    virtualenv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
    pip install --upgrade pip
    pip install --upgrade setuptools
    pip install .

.. warning:: It's important to upgrade ``pip`` first, as default ``pip`` version in RHEL (1.4) might fail on dependencies
.. note:: `infrared` will create a default `workspace <workspace.html#workspace>`_ for you. This workspace will manage your environment details.
.. note:: For development work it's better to install in editable
    mode and work with master branch::

      pip install -e .

Provision
---------

In this example we'll use `virsh <virsh.html>`_ provisioner in order to demonstrate how easy and fast it is to provision machines using `infrared`.

Add the virsh `plugin <plugins.html>`_::

    infrared plugin add plugins/virsh

Print `virsh` help message and all input options::

    infrared virsh --help

For basic execution, the user should only provide data for the mandatory parameters, this can be done in two ways:

1) `CLI`_
2) `Answers File`_

CLI
^^^

Notice the only three mandatory paramters in `virsh` provisioner are:

  * ``--host-address`` - the host IP or FQDN to ssh to
  * ``--host-key`` - the private key file used to authenticate to your ``host-address`` server
  * ``--topology-nodes`` - type and role of nodes you would like to deploy (e.g: ``controller:3`` == 3 VMs that will act as controllers)

We can now execute the provisioning process by providing those parameters through the CLI::

    infrared virsh --host-address $HOST --host-key $HOST_KEY --topology-nodes "undercloud:1,controller:1,compute:1"

That is it, the machines are now provisioned and accessible::

    TASK [update inventory file symlink] *******************************************
                         [[ previous task time: 0:00:00.306717 = 0.31s / 209.71s ]]
    changed: [localhost]

    PLAY RECAP *********************************************************************
    compute-0                  : ok=4    changed=3    unreachable=0    failed=0
    controller-0               : ok=5    changed=4    unreachable=0    failed=0
    localhost                  : ok=4    changed=3    unreachable=0    failed=0
    undercloud-0               : ok=4    changed=3    unreachable=0    failed=0
    hypervisor                   : ok=85   changed=29   unreachable=0    failed=0

                         [[ previous task time: 0:00:00.237104 = 0.24s / 209.94s ]]
                         [[ previous play time: 0:00:00.555806 = 0.56s / 209.94s ]]
                   [[ previous playbook time: 0:03:29.943926 = 209.94s / 209.94s ]]
                        [[ previous total time: 0:03:29.944113 = 209.94s / 0.00s ]]

.. note:: You can also use the auto-generated ssh config file to easily access the machines

Answers File
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Unlike with `CLI`_, here a new answers file (INI based) will be created.
This file contains all the default & mandatory parameters in a section of its own (named ``virsh`` in our case), so the user can easily replace all mandatory parameters.
When the file is ready, it should be provided as an input for the ``--from-file`` option.

Generate Answers file for `virsh` provisioner::

    infrared virsh --generate-answers-file virsh_prov.ini

Review the config file and edit as required:

.. code-block:: ini
   :emphasize-lines: 4,5
   :caption: virsh_prov.ini

   [virsh]
   host-key = Required argument. Edit with any value, OR override with CLI: --host-key=<option>
   host-address = Required argument. Edit with any value, OR override with CLI: --host-address=<option>
   topology-nodes = Required argument. Edit with one of the allowed values OR override with CLI: --topology-nodes=<option>
   host-user = root

.. note:: ``host-key``, ``host-address`` and ``topology-nodes`` don't have default values. All arguments can be edited in file or overridden directly from CLI.

.. note:: Do not use double quotes or apostrophes for the string values
    in the answers file. `Infrared` will NOT remove those quotation marks
    that surround the values.

Edit mandatory parameters values in the answers file:

.. code-block:: ini

   [virsh]
   host-key = ~/.ssh/id_rsa
   host-address = my.host.address
   topology-nodes = undercloud:1,controller:1,compute:1
   host-user = root

Execute provisioning using the newly created answers file:

.. code-block:: shell

  infrared virsh --from-file=virsh_prov.ini

.. note:: You can always overwrite parameters from answers file with parameters from CLI:

  .. code-block:: text

    infrared virsh --from-file=virsh_prov.ini --topology-nodes="undercloud:1,controller:1,compute:1,ceph:1"

Done. Quick & Easy!

Installing
----------

Now let's demonstrate the installation process by deploy an OpenStack environment using RHEL-OSP on the
nodes we have provisioned in the previous stage.

Undercloud
^^^^^^^^^^

First, we need to enable the tripleo-undercloud `plugin <plugins.html>`_::

  infrared plugin add plugins/tripleo-undercloud

Just like in the provisioning stage, here also the user should take care of the mandatory parameters
(by CLI or INI file) in order to be able to start the installation process.
Let's deploy a `TripleO Undercloud`_::

  infrared tripleo-undercloud --version 10 --images-task rpm

This will deploy OSP 10 (``Newton``) on the node ``undercloud-0`` provisioned previously.

Infrared provides support for upstream RDO deployments::

  infrared tripleo-undercloud --version pike --images-task=import \
        --images-url=https://images.rdoproject.org/pike/rdo_trunk/current-tripleo/stable/

This will deploy RDO Pike version (``OSP 11``) on the node ``undercloud-0`` provisioned previously.
Of course it is possible to use ``--images-task=build`` instead.

.. _Tripleo Undercloud: tripleo-undercloud.html

Overcloud
^^^^^^^^^

Like previously, need first to enable the associated `plugin <plugins.html>`_::

  infrared plugin add plugins/tripleo-overcloud

Let's deploy a `TripleO Overcloud`_::

  infrared tripleo-overcloud --deployment-files virt --version 10 --introspect yes --tagging yes --deploy yes

  infrared cloud-config --deployment-files virt --tasks create_external_network,forward_overcloud_dashboard,network_time,tempest_deployer_input

This will deploy OSP 10 (``Newton``) overcloud from the undercloud defined previously previously.
Given the topology defined by the `Answers File`_ earlier, the overcloud should contain:
- 1 controller
- 1 compute
- 1 ceph storage


.. _Tripleo Overcloud: tripleo-overcloud.html

Commit message:

Change the default IR_HOME location to be in home dir
- Change the default location of IR_HOME created resources to be in
  user home directory under the ~/.infrared folder.
- Update documentation.

Change-Id: If332d1dfb6f348ab4f8df9dc4174077cf84cbef5

docs/source/bootstrap.rst, after:

Bootstrap
=========

Setup
-----

Clone `infrared` 2.0 from GitHub::

    git clone https://github.com/redhat-openstack/infrared.git

Make sure that all `prerequisites <setup.html#Prerequisites>`_ are installed.
Setup virtualenv and `install <setup.html#Installation>`_ from source using pip::

    cd infrared
    virtualenv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
    pip install --upgrade pip
    pip install --upgrade setuptools
    pip install .

.. warning:: It's important to upgrade ``pip`` first, as default ``pip`` version in RHEL (1.4) might fail on dependencies
.. note:: `infrared` will create a default `workspace <workspace.html#workspace>`_ for you. This workspace will manage your environment details.

Development
-----------
For development work it's better to install in editable mode and work with master branch::

  pip install -e .

Change default `IR_HOME <configuration.html#configuration>`_ variable to point to Infrared directory::

  export IR_HOME=/path/to/infrared/directory/

Provision
---------

In this example we'll use `virsh <virsh.html>`_ provisioner in order to demonstrate how easy and fast it is to provision machines using `infrared`.

Add the virsh `plugin <plugins.html>`_::

    infrared plugin add plugins/virsh

Print `virsh` help message and all input options::

    infrared virsh --help

For basic execution, the user should only provide data for the mandatory parameters, this can be done in two ways:

1) `CLI`_
2) `Answers File`_

CLI
^^^

Notice the only three mandatory paramters in `virsh` provisioner are:

  * ``--host-address`` - the host IP or FQDN to ssh to
  * ``--host-key`` - the private key file used to authenticate to your ``host-address`` server
  * ``--topology-nodes`` - type and role of nodes you would like to deploy (e.g: ``controller:3`` == 3 VMs that will act as controllers)

We can now execute the provisioning process by providing those parameters through the CLI::

    infrared virsh --host-address $HOST --host-key $HOST_KEY --topology-nodes "undercloud:1,controller:1,compute:1"

That is it, the machines are now provisioned and accessible::

    TASK [update inventory file symlink] *******************************************
                         [[ previous task time: 0:00:00.306717 = 0.31s / 209.71s ]]
    changed: [localhost]

    PLAY RECAP *********************************************************************
    compute-0                  : ok=4    changed=3    unreachable=0    failed=0
    controller-0               : ok=5    changed=4    unreachable=0    failed=0
    localhost                  : ok=4    changed=3    unreachable=0    failed=0
    undercloud-0               : ok=4    changed=3    unreachable=0    failed=0
    hypervisor                   : ok=85   changed=29   unreachable=0    failed=0

                         [[ previous task time: 0:00:00.237104 = 0.24s / 209.94s ]]
                         [[ previous play time: 0:00:00.555806 = 0.56s / 209.94s ]]
                   [[ previous playbook time: 0:03:29.943926 = 209.94s / 209.94s ]]
                        [[ previous total time: 0:03:29.944113 = 209.94s / 0.00s ]]

.. note:: You can also use the auto-generated ssh config file to easily access the machines

Answers File
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Unlike with `CLI`_, here a new answers file (INI based) will be created.
This file contains all the default & mandatory parameters in a section of its own (named ``virsh`` in our case), so the user can easily replace all mandatory parameters.
When the file is ready, it should be provided as an input for the ``--from-file`` option.

Generate Answers file for `virsh` provisioner::

    infrared virsh --generate-answers-file virsh_prov.ini

Review the config file and edit as required:

.. code-block:: ini
   :emphasize-lines: 4,5
   :caption: virsh_prov.ini

   [virsh]
   host-key = Required argument. Edit with any value, OR override with CLI: --host-key=<option>
   host-address = Required argument. Edit with any value, OR override with CLI: --host-address=<option>
   topology-nodes = Required argument. Edit with one of the allowed values OR override with CLI: --topology-nodes=<option>
   host-user = root

.. note:: ``host-key``, ``host-address`` and ``topology-nodes`` don't have default values. All arguments can be edited in file or overridden directly from CLI.

.. note:: Do not use double quotes or apostrophes for the string values
    in the answers file. `Infrared` will NOT remove those quotation marks
    that surround the values.

Edit mandatory parameters values in the answers file:

.. code-block:: ini

   [virsh]
   host-key = ~/.ssh/id_rsa
   host-address = my.host.address
   topology-nodes = undercloud:1,controller:1,compute:1
   host-user = root

Execute provisioning using the newly created answers file:

.. code-block:: shell

  infrared virsh --from-file=virsh_prov.ini

.. note:: You can always overwrite parameters from answers file with parameters from CLI:

  .. code-block:: text

    infrared virsh --from-file=virsh_prov.ini --topology-nodes="undercloud:1,controller:1,compute:1,ceph:1"

Done. Quick & Easy!

Installing
----------

Now let's demonstrate the installation process by deploy an OpenStack environment using RHEL-OSP on the
nodes we have provisioned in the previous stage.

Undercloud
^^^^^^^^^^

First, we need to enable the tripleo-undercloud `plugin <plugins.html>`_::

  infrared plugin add plugins/tripleo-undercloud

Just like in the provisioning stage, here also the user should take care of the mandatory parameters
(by CLI or INI file) in order to be able to start the installation process.
Let's deploy a `TripleO Undercloud`_::

  infrared tripleo-undercloud --version 10 --images-task rpm

This will deploy OSP 10 (``Newton``) on the node ``undercloud-0`` provisioned previously.

Infrared provides support for upstream RDO deployments::

  infrared tripleo-undercloud --version pike --images-task=import \
        --images-url=https://images.rdoproject.org/pike/rdo_trunk/current-tripleo/stable/

This will deploy RDO Pike version (``OSP 11``) on the node ``undercloud-0`` provisioned previously.
Of course it is possible to use ``--images-task=build`` instead.

.. _Tripleo Undercloud: tripleo-undercloud.html

Overcloud
^^^^^^^^^

Like previously, need first to enable the associated `plugin <plugins.html>`_::

  infrared plugin add plugins/tripleo-overcloud

Let's deploy a `TripleO Overcloud`_::

  infrared tripleo-overcloud --deployment-files virt --version 10 --introspect yes --tagging yes --deploy yes

  infrared cloud-config --deployment-files virt --tasks create_external_network,forward_overcloud_dashboard,network_time,tempest_deployer_input

This will deploy OSP 10 (``Newton``) overcloud from the undercloud defined previously previously.
Given the topology defined by the `Answers File`_ earlier, the overcloud should contain:
- 1 controller
- 1 compute
- 1 ceph storage


.. _Tripleo Overcloud: tripleo-overcloud.html
